- Automatically copying objects from one S3 bucket to another. We upload objects, amazon automatically copies it across buckets.
- It is automatic and asynchronous and background process.
- Types
	- CRR(Cross-Region): Copy across different AWS Regions (us-east-1 -> ap-south-1)
		- Usecase:
			- Disasater Recovery
			- Lower Latency across regions
			- Compliance (data stored in multiple regions)
	- SRR(Same Region): Copy across the same AWS Regions (us-east-1 -> us-east-1 different bucket)
		- Usecase:
			- Log aggregation
			- Dev/test environment sync
			- Multiple teams using same data
- Requirements:-
	- *Versioning must be enabled on both the buckets*
	- S3 replication service requires a IAM Role, with the following permissions:-
		- Read from source bucket
		- Write to destination bucket
		
- Q: Replication copies existing objects automatically, True or False?
  A: Falsem - S3 replication only applies to **objects created or modified after the replication rule is enabled**.

- Q: Delete in source → deleted in destination?
  A: Regarding delete markers(When we try to delete a file), By default → ❌ NOT deleted in destination, Unless delete marker replication is enabled
  (Reason why it is not enabled by default: To prevent accidental or malicious data loss spreading to backup bucket)
- A: Regarding version delete of a file *Which is permanent*, it can't be replicated by S3 replication.

- Q: Replication is cascading in AWS, ex. A -> B -> C, if something is deleted in A, it will be deleted in B and C.
  A: False, Object deleted in C is not because of A. A-> B is a single event and B -> C is a independent event.