### SSL and TLS
- SSL and TLS encrypt data in transit.
- Data travelling from client to the load balancer is encrypted.
- Even though **TLS is the modern protocol**, people still say **SSL**.
- HTTPS is HTTP + TLS/SSL
- SSL Certificates are issued by Certificate Authority (ex. DigiCert, GoDaddy etc.)

### ACM (Amazon Certificate Manager)
- It can
	- Generate
	- Manage
	- Renew automatically (Since certificates expire)
	- Attach SSL certificate to load balancers

### SSL Termination
- Architecture: Client → HTTPS → Load Balancer → HTTP → EC2
- Communication between LB and EC2 is unencrypted and that is okay, because it exists inside a VPC, which is already secure.
- Additional benefits:
	- Lower load on EC2, since it doesn't have to decrypt the request
	- One place to handle SSL certificates
	- Easier renewal and rotation of SSL certificates

### X.509 Certificates
- Load balancers use  X.509 Certificates
	- Domain name
	- Public key
	- CA Signature
	- Expiration date

### SNI (Server Name Indication)
- Before SNI, 1 IP address → 1 HTTPS website.
- SNI allows one server to host multiple SSL certificates.
- Meaning multiple websites could exist on one server.
- Process: 
	- Client → ALB → sends hostname (SNI)
	- ALB → selects correct certificate
	- ALB → forwards request to correct target group
- ALB, NLB support SNI.
- *LIMITATION*: For CLBs, if we want multiple domains, we will have to create multiple CLBs

NOTE:
HTTP intelligence, HTTP / HTTPS routing logic  → ALB
Raw TCP power → NLB

### Connection Draining / Deregistration Draining
- Connection draining prevents **user request failures**.
- Connection draining allows existing requests to finish before an instance is removed from the load balancer.
- Flow:
	- User sends request
	- LB decides to remove Instance 1
	- New requests stopped from coming on Instance 1
	- User request is running
	- After 30 seconds, instance 1 is removed
- Cause for deregistering:
	- When health checks fail
	- During Scale-in (ASG)
	- Manual Deregister
- Duration: Between 1 to 3600s
- Set a low value if requests are short