Over time, number of users can change
We can create and get rid of servers easily

Roles of Auto Scaling Group:
- Scale in
- Scale out
- Maintain minimum/maximum number of ec2 instances running
- *If an instance is not working (Unhealthy) terminate it and start a new instance*
- *Automatically register the new instances to Load Balancer*

ASG is completely free, we only pay for underlying resources.
An instance inside of ASG, can also be health checked by LB (great integration!)

### Creation of ASG
- We need to create a launch template
	- AMI + Instance Type
	- User Data
	- EBS Volumes
	- Security Groups
	- Roles
	- Network + Subnet Info
	- Load Balancer Information
- Min, Max, Desired Capacity
- Scaling Policies (On what basis to scale)
	- With help of Cloud Watch Alarm, ASG can scale. (ex. if cpu utilization is high, create new instance)

### Scaling Policies
A. Dynamic Scaling:
- Scaling happens based on **CloudWatch metrics in real time**.
1. Target Tracking Scaling (recommended)
	- Simple to set up
	- When you create a **Target Tracking Policy**, AWS automatically creates **CloudWatch alarms**.
	- Ex: Avg ASG CPU utilization needs to stay around 40%
2. Step Scaling (multiple thresholds)
	- When CloudWatch alarm is triggered add 2 instances
	- When CloudWatch alarm is triggered remove 2 instances
	- Used for **large traffic spikes**.
	- Ex. Cpu Usage 50% -> +1 Instance, 70% -> +2 Instance
3. Simple Scaling (Old method, slow, not recommended)
	- CloudWatch Alarm → Trigger → Add instances
	- manual alarm creation

B. Scheduled Scaling
- Anticipate based on usage patterns.
- Used when usage is predictable.
- We know that on friday 5 pm load will increase, so we provision new instances

C. Predictive Scaling
- AWS uses **machine learning** to forecast traffic.
- It analyzes historical metrics like:
	- CPU utilization
	- network traffic
	- ALB request count
- Then automatically scales **before traffic increases**.
- Done automatically by the ASG

### Metrics to scale on
- CPU Utilization, Avg utilization across our instances
- Request Count, if we know that our application can take 1000 requests, we can scale based on that (we need to test beforehand)
- Network In/Out, if we know our app has a lot of upload and download, and we know, that there can be an issue of network bandwidth, we use this
- Custom Metrics

### Scaling Cooldown
- After scaling activity, there is a cooldown period. By default 5 mins
- During this period no new instance will be created or deleted -> to allow metrics to stabilise
	- We can use already created AMI, to make this time lower, to scale faster