### 1. On-Demand
- These are the most expensive
- They can be bought and used instantly
- No long term commitment
- Use case for *short-term* *unstable/unpredictable* workloads
- We pay by:
	- per second after one minute: for linux and windows
	- per minute: for other os

### 2. Reserved Instances
- Upto 72% discount
- We reserve a certain type of instance in this case .
	- (instance type, region, tenancy, os are fixed)
- Use case is for long predictable workloads. (database)
- We pay by:
	- Upfront: Most discount
	- Partial Upfront
	- No upfront
- We can sell non required instances in the AWS marketplace
- There is also a *Convertible type* in this case, which allows us to change instance type, tenancy, os etc. but region is still fixed. (66% discounts max)

### 3. EC2 Savings plan
- Upto 72% discounts again
- Instead of reserving a instance type, we commit to specific amount of usage (ex. $10/min)
- Amount billed over the committed amount of usage, is billed at on-demand cost.
- Instance family and Region are locked

### 4. Spot instances
- Cheapest instance types
- Upto 90% discount
- Failure resistant workload
	- Batch jobs
	- Image processing
	- Data analysis
	- Distributed workloads
	- Workload with flexible start and end time
- NOT good for databases
- *Instances that we can lose at any time if configured max price is less than current spot price*

### 5. Dedicated hosts
- The most expensive
- A physical server with ec2 instance capacity fully dedicated for us.
- Allows us to `address compliance requirements` and use our own `licenses`
- Purchasing options:
	- On demand (per second)
	- Reserved: 1 to 3 years (All, Partial, No upfront)
- Maximum control
### 6. Dedicated hosts
- Runs on hardware that is dedicated to us, different from getting an entire server.
- However we may share hardware with other instances in our account.
- No control over instance placement

### 7. Capacity Reservations
- On-demand price whether or not instance is running.
- If we have reserved a capacity, we will always have ec2 instance whenever we want.
- We can reserve the capacity in AZ region for any duration
- ex. If AWS capacity is unavailable during a major outage, the system fails. **Capacity reservation guarantees the extra 30 instances are available.**
