## Public IPs:
- Public IPs are used to access the internet
- Unique across the whole web
- Can be geo-located easily
- While doing SSH we use public IP since our PC is not on the same server

## Private IPs:
- Used to identify machine on a private network
- Unique across private network
- Different private network can have machines with same IPs
- Machines connect to Intetrnet using NAT + Internet gateway (a proxy)

## Elastic IPs:
- When we stop and start our EC2 instance, it can change its public IP.
- To fix our public IP, we can use elastic IP.
- Elastic IP uses IPv4, it exists as long as we dont delete it.
- It can be attached to one instance at a time
- Limited to 5 Elastic IPs, per account (request to increase)
- By using elastic IPs, we can mask the failure of instance by rapidly remapping the address to another instance in your account.
- Not recommended to use directly on VMs:
	- Since it can reveal the underlying architecture of the VM
	- Instead use a random IP and attach a DNS name to it.
	- We can also attach it to a load balancer instead.

## Placement Groups
- To control how our instance are placed physically.
- Types:
	1. Cluster:
		- clusters instances into a low latency group in a single AZ
		- If the entire AZ fails, all the instances fail at the same time
		- Useful for Big Data jobs which need to complete fast.
		- Low latency application with high network throughput
	2. Spread:
		- These span multiple AZ
		- Failure of one AZ doesn't impact all the instances.
		- The instances are on a different hardware
		- Limited to 7 instances per AZ per placement group
		- Application that requires high availability
		- Critical Applications where each instance is isolated from failure of other
	3. Partition
		- Partition is a set of EC2 instances
		- We can have multiple partitions across multiple AZ (in the same region)
		- The instances do not share racks with instances in other partitions
		- One partition failure doesnt affect other partitions
		- Scales to 100s of EC2 instance per partition
		- EC2 instances get access to the partition information using metadata
		- Ex. cassandra, HBase, HDFS, Kafka

## Elastic Network Interfaces (ENI)
- They are like virtual network card.
- Components of ENI are:-
	- Primary Private IPv4 Address
	- This is the main IP used to communicate within the VPC
	- Secondary Private IPv4 Addresses (Optional)
	- ENIs can have additional private IPs.
	- Useful for hosting multiple services on the same instance with different IPs.
	- Elastic IP (Optional)
- A public IP address can be attached to a private IP on the ENI
- [!Important] This keeps IP fixed even if the instance stops or fails
- Subnet Association
- Each ENI should be associated to a subnet within a VPC
- This also determines the AZ of ENI
- Mac Address
- Security group (one or more)
- We can create ENI whenever we want, move them to different EC2 instances for failover

## EC2 Hibernate
- Stop means, the data on disk (EBS) is kept intact
- Terminate - any EBS setup with VM is also lost
- Whenever our instance starts:-
	- OS Boots and User Data script (For first run) is run
	- Application starts, cache warmup
	- This process can take some time.
	- Therefore we use EC2 Hibernate
	- Any data on RAM is stored onto the root EBS volume
	- THis makes PC boot faster (Since OS is not stopped or restarted)
	- But root EBS volume must be encrypted
- Use case: Services that take time to initialize, long running processes
- Requirements:-
	- Maximum Instance RAM size: 150 GB (Since this is saved to the storage, it cant be too big)
	- Instance Size: not supported for bare metal instances
	- AMI - Linux
	- Root Volume - must be EBS, encrypted. IT cannot be instance store. It should have enough size.
	- Available for On-demand, reserved and spot instances
- An instance can not be hibernated for more than 60 days

## EBS
- EBS is a network drive storage. Therefore there is some latency.
- It can be independently detached from a EC2 instance and attached to another EC2 instance.
- It allows the data to persist even after instance's termination. (If we turn off `delete root volume when instance is deleted`)
- They are bound to the specific AZ.
- In order to transfer them to a different Region/AZ -> create snapshot -> copy to new EBS
- When creating a snapshot, it is recommended to detach the volume. (not mandatory)
- We can move snapshot to a `archive tier` to save upto 75% in storage costs. However snapshot retrieval time goes upto 24-72 hours.
- We can also configure recycle bin for snapshots for accidental deletion retrieval.
- Fast snapshot restore -> force full initialization of snapshot to have no latency on first use.

## AMI
- Amazon Machine Image
- It is a custom image to be used for EC2 instances.
- Use case:
- Add our own configuration/os/monitoring/software
- Faster boot, since we dont need to run user data scripts, because all software is prepackaged
- Built for a specific region and can be copied across regions
- We can launch instances from
- Public AMI
- Our own AMI: Which we maintain
- AWS Marketplace: Made or sold by someone else
- Creation of AMI from EC2 Instance
- Start EC2 Instance and customize it
- Stop the instance (for data integrity)
- Build an AMI - automatically creates EBS snapshot
- Create new EC2 servers using AMIs

## EC2 Instance store
- EBS have latency
- EC2 instance store are high performance (High no of iops)
- They are cleared when EC2 is stopped
- Data failure if hardware fails
- Backup and Replication are our responsibilities
- Use case:-
	- Buffer
	- Caching
	- Temporary Content 
	- Or any process/application in which memory loss is not an issue and process/application can work if memory loss occurs