Managed Relational DBMS
You manage data, AWS manages everything else

### Supported Engines (Memorize this):
- PostgreSQL (popular opensource)
- MySQL (common)
- MariaDB (MySQL fork)
- Oracle (enterprise)
- Microsoft SQL Server (enterprise)
- IBM DB2 (less common)
- *Aurora (AWS Proprietary)*
If you see **“AWS optimized relational DB” → Aurora**

### Features
1. Automated Backups + Point-in-Time Restore
	- Restore database to any point in time
	- Used in accidental deletes, corruption recovery
2. Read Replicas (Meaning we have replicas of DB which are read-only)
	- 1 primary → multiple read replicas
	- Used for:
		- read-heavy apps
		- reporting systems
3. Multi AZ (High Availability)
	- Primary DB (AZ1)  ->  sync replication -> Standby DB (AZ2)
	- Multi-AZ does not mean, we can use DB simultaneously from multiple AZ. Instead it means, if a AZ fails, standby DB from another AZ can be used. 
	- Purpose: Disaster Recovery and not scaling
4. Maintenance Windows
	AWS performs: upgrades, patches during a scheduled window
5. Integration with CloudWatch & Performance Insights
6. RDS uses EBS under the hood.
7. *We cannot access RDS using SSH. If we require that, use EC2 instead.* 
8. RDS storage auto scaling happens on following conditions:
	- Free storage < 10%
	- Condition lasts > 5 minutes
	- Last scaling > 6 hours ago
9. We have to define the upper limit for the storage. RDS storage autoscaling increases storage **up to a user-defined maximum**. And it cannot downscale, only upscale.
10. *RDS CANNOT auto scale the compute part. We have to do that manually.*

### Read Replicas
- Help us to scale our reads.
- We can create up to 15 replicas.
- They can be in the same AZ, cross-AZ, cross-region
- Replication is asynchronous -> eventually consistent
- Each replica can be promoted to its own database.
- To use read replicas, we need to update the connection string to include all the read dbs
- Use case:-
	- Suppose we have a production application, and a supplementary reporting application.
	  We create a read replica and reporting application, instead of using main db, uses the read replica for analytics. This way production application is unaffected.
- Cross-AZ network cost for RDS Read Replicas is **FREE**
- However, Cross-Region network cost for RDS Read Replicas is **PAID**

### Multi-AZ
- Helps use with disaster recovery.
- It increases availability
- The standby db is synced synchronously (BIG DIFFERENCE).
- So the question is, when a db fails, and we need to use standby db from another AZ, changing this manually is a big problem. This needs to happen automatically.
- Therefore, Multi AZ uses a single DNS name. (ex. domain name) -> This helps for automatic failover, meaning, the db is swapped internally, and we dont have to worry about it.
- IT IS NOT USED FOR SCALING, since we cannot read or write to the standby database.

Question: Can read replicas be setup as Multi AZ for disaster recovery?
Answer: YES

### RDS - Going from Single AZ to Multi AZ
- *This operation has Zero-downtime.*
- We just need to press `modify` in the RDS settings.
- Behind the scenes:
	- RDS creates a snapshot of the current database
	- Then this snapshot is restored in different AZs (So a base level DB can be established)
	- After this, Synchronization happens, and both DB come up to the same level.

### Points while setting up
- Storing the password in the secret manager is the most secure way. However it is paid feature.
- We can use password, IAM, Kerberos authentication
- Max Size:
	- Standard RDS Engines (EBS Backed) -> **64 TB**
	- Aurora -> **256 TB**
- To delete -> modify rds -> disable delete protection -> delete

### RDS Custom
- Managed Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server Database with OS and DB customization.
- All the benefits of scaling, automation, operations, backups from RDS tech.
- Previously, we noted that, We cannot access RDS using SSH. 
	- *However RDS Custom allows us to access underlying DB and OS.*
- Use case: 
	- Configure settings
	- Install Patches
	- Enable native features/Custom features
	- Access underlying EC2 instance using SSH/SSM
- Important point: While customizing, disable the automation mode, so that RDS doesn't run any automation script while customization
- We need to be extra careful while making changes, since it can break. Always take snapshot so that we don't lose progress.

### Important Ports
- PostgreSQL: 5432
- MySQL: 3306
- Oracle RDS: 1521
- MSSQL Server: 1433
- MariaDB: 3306 (same as MySQL)
- Aurora: 5432 (if PostgreSQL compatible) or 3306 (if MySQL compatible)