- Hands down, the best option for database
- It is proprietary
- Only 20% more expensive, but worth every penny.
	- 5x better performance than MySQL on RDS
	- 3x better performance than Postgres on RDS

### Features
1. Auto scaling option
	- Storage grows in 10gb increments, up to 256 TB. (We dont setup the storage scaling)
	- The number of reader instances can grow, based on things like CPU usage.
		- We setup the autoscaling for reader instances
		- We define - 
			- Target metric (usually **CPU utilization**)
			- Min replicas
			- Max replicas
2. Highly Available
	1. Supports up to 15 read replicas, and replication process is faster than MySQL (sub 10ms)
	2. Instantaneous failover -> High Availability (Faster than normal RDS)
		1.  One master that takes writes. Any of the read replicas can become a master.
		2. Cross region replication
	3. It stores 6 copies of our data across 3 AZ.
		1. In case one AZ goes down it is okay. It only requires 4 out of 6 copies to do a write operation.
		2. It only requires 3 out of 6 copies to do a read operation
		3. *In case anything gets corrupted, it only can do AUTO HEALING.*(peer to peer replication)
		4. We rely on hundreds of volumes and not just one. Although it is one logical volume.
3. Writer Endpoint: DNS name, since master can change and failover
4. *Read replicas can be auto-scaled!*
	- If you remember, in normal RDS, our connection string included all the read replicas connection, anytime we update our read replicas, we had to update our connection string.
	- This process was manual in RDS
	- Now since we have auto scaling in Aurora -> we cannot keep updating connection string all the time!
	- *Therefore, we have Reader Endpoint*
		- It automatically connects us to the correct read replica.
		- It also acts as a load balancer.
5. Automated patching with Zero downtime (In RDS, they have maintenance windows)
6. Advanced Monitoring
7. Point in time restores don't require any backups!!! It is called BACKTRACK.
8. Read replica write forwarding. Incase we write to a read replica, it can automatically be routed to the write instance.

## Advanced concepts

## Custom Endpoints
- Let's say that we have setup the following configuration for reader instances:
  r3.large, r3.large, r5.2xlarge, r5.2xlarge
- We might have the case where, we would like to use these 2 bigger instances (r5.2xlarge) for more computationally intensive tasks like Data Analysis
- In that case, our DA system should only read from these 2 instances. Therefore it cant use reader endpoint, since that would include all 4.
- Therefore we create a Custom Endpoint. Using custom endpoint, we can create connection string for the 2 instances.
- Generally, if we create custom endpoints for some instances, we also create custom endpoints for remaining instances, since if the application use the global reader endpoint, they might end up using our specialized instances, reserved for other tasks (like DA)

### Aurora Serverless
- Pay per second, can be more cost effective
- Automated database instantiation and auto-scaling based on usage.
- Good for intermittent, infrequent and unpredictable workloads.
- No need to think of capacity.

### Global Aurora
- Aurora Cross Region Alternative (recommended)
- We setup 1 primary region
- 10 secondary read-only regions, replication lag is less than 1s
- Each secondary region has 16 read replicas each
- Helps decrease latency
- In case of a disaster (like attack on Bahrain datacenter), the promotion of another region to the master region takes only RTO<1s
- *Cross region replication takes less than 1s*

### Aurora Machine Learning
- Connects the RDS database directly to ML tools available via Amazon
	- SageMaker (which can host any model)
	- Comprehend (sentiment analysis)
- It allows us to use SQL to add ML-based predictions
- Example use case:
	- User wants recommendation
	- Send a req to RDS to get recommendation
	- Extract the user details and purchase history from the db
	- Call the ML function from inside of RDS with these details
	- ML gives response to the RDS containing recommendations based on data we gave
	- RDS forwards response from ML

### BabelFish
- Babelfish for Aurora PostgreSQL lets Amazon Aurora (PostgreSQL-compatible) behave like Microsoft SQL Server.
- Your app can keep using:
    - T-SQL
    - SQL Server drivers (ODBC/JDBC)
- Without rewriting everything to PostgreSQL
- AWS SCT/DMS handles the data migration