### At-rest encryption
- Database master and replicas encryption.
- Defined during launch time
- Encrypted using KMS
- To encrypt read replicas, master database has to be encrypted
- To encrypt un-encrypted db, do a db snapshot and restore as encrypted

### In-flight encryption
- Already TLS-ready by default
- Use AWS TLS root certificates on client side
- IAM Authentication
	- We can use IAM roles to connect to database (instead of username/pw)
	- Ex. EC2 is given a role to access the DB. (without username/pw)
- Security Groups for network access
- No SSH access apart from RDS Custom
- Audit Logs can be enabled. They contain executed SQL queries and DB info.
  But they disappear after some time. Therefore we can send them over to CloudWatch logs for longer retention

### RDS Proxy
- It is the middle layer between our app and database
- We don't connect directly to RDS anymore, instead we connect to a proxy.
- The reason: Databases hate too many connections. 
	- DB gets overloaded
	- High CPU/RAM usage
	- Connection Timeout
	- Crashes
- Proxy reuses connections (pooling). Therefore number of connections once 1000 will fall down to 50.
- Lambda Use case: Lambda has spiky connections, 1000s of functions can start/stop. These functions access db. This many connections opening and closing can crash db. Proxy keeps connections open.
- Failover:
	- Normal RDS failover:
		- Primary DB fails -> switch to standby
		- Connections break, apps retry, delay happen
	- Proxy enabled failover:
		- Proxy handles connections
		- App doesnt notice much
		- Failover is ~66% faster
- IAM Authentication:
	- App -> Proxy uses IAM
	- Proxy -> DB using stored credentials (Secret Manager)
- RDS Proxy blocks internet access. It can only be accessed inside the VPC.
- Supported DB: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, SQL Server, Aurora (MySQL & PostgreSQL)

- “Too many DB connections”
  “Lambda connecting to RDS”
  “Improve DB failover time”
  *Answer: RDS Proxy*
  
  “Secure DB credentials with IAM”
  RDS Proxy + Secrets Manager