- Where are docker images stored?
	- Docker Hub (Only public repo)
	- Amazon ECR (private + public repos)

- A task definition might consist of:
	- Docker Image
	- CPU/RAM
	- Ports
	- Env
	- Task role
- We create a task when we run the task definition.

2 Types of ECS
#### Amazon ECS - EC2 launch type
- We launch the servers
- Then we install ECS agent on it
- They join the ECS cluster
- Amazon manages starting/stopping the containers
	- *We manage scaling and servers*

#### Amazon ECS - Fargate launch type
- We create task definitions.
- AWS manages the servers and scaling
- We just define the tasks amazon runs it
- To scale -> increase no of tasks

#### ECS Auto Scaling - EC2 launch type
- Fargate allows us to focus on only scaling our tasks and not worry about the servers.
- However, to scale tasks inside an instance only, we can use ECS Service Auto Scaling
- This allows the tasks to scale inside of the instance that we have
- It can scale based on
	- Target Tracking - CPU/RAM/Bandwidth utilization
	- Scheduled scaling - Scale in evening when traffic is high
	- Step Scaling - Hard coded rules. Scale to 2 tasks when CPU utilization is at 20%, 3 when 30% etc.
- In this case, if ec2's capacity is reached, the tasks cant be spun up
- Therefore we need 2 auto scaling areas, EC2 ASG and ECS Service Auto Scaling.

#### ECS Cluster Capacity provider
- In ECS Service Auto Scaling, managing both EC2 scaling and ECS scaling can be problematic.
- Cluster capacity provider connects ECS and ASG
- Based on the number of pending tasks inside an ECS, it spuns up new EC2 instances.
- Flow:
	- Tasks are placed inside ECS
	- EC2 capacity is reached
	- New tasks go into pending (since no capacity)
	- Capacity provider is triggerred
	- New EC2 instance is created
	- Pending tasks are placed there.

___

### IAM Roles for ECS
- EC2 Instance profile (This is the role for base EC2 instance)
	- This role is for the ECS agent that we installed on the machine
	- This role allows the instance to connect with various Container services (ECS, ECR, Cloudwatch etc)
- ECS task role (This is the role for tasks running inside the instance)
	- Different tasks can have different roles because they would want to access different services
	- We define this role in the *Task Definition*

___

### Load balancer integrations
1. ALB
	1. Recommended for most use cases
2. NLB
	1. Only use for high performance workloads
	2. Use with private link
3. Classic Load Balancer
	1. Works but not recommended, since it cannot integrate with Fargate (Basically containers ASG)

___

### File storage for Tasks - EFS
- Tasks running inside the docker daemon, lose storage when stopped.
- Meaning all the data is lost.
- To have a persistent and common data store for all the tasks at one place, we use EFS.
- This is for Tasks in the same AZ
- *We cant mount S3 as a file system.*

___

# Working with ECS

- Wherever running new task is mentioned -> Fargate
- Wherever scaling based on something is mentioned -> ECS Auto Scaling
#### ECS tasks invoked by Event bridge
- Let's say an object is uploaded to S3.
- Event bridge is triggerred on upload event
- A new task(container) is spun up in the ECS. Generally of RunTask type. Which is one-off task.
- This task updates the database

#### ECS Tasks invoked by Event Bridge Scheduler
- After every 1 hour, event bridge triggers ECS Fargate
- ECS Fargate creates a new task
- The task does batch processing 
- Stores result into S3

#### ECS Tasks scaling based SQS
- SQS receives messages from the producers
- ECS Tasks, simeltaneously poll the queue.
- We set up a cloudwatch metric on SQS queue length
- **ECS Auto Scaling Service** scales **Tasks** based on **number of messages in the queue** 

#### Intercept stopped Tasks using Event Bridge
- In case a task exits,
- Event bridge can pick up on that event
- Then send the event to SNS
- SNS in turn, sends email to admin

___

# ECR
- It is a container registry for docker images
- Supports private and public repositories
- Features: 
	- Vulnerability Detection,
	- Versioning Images
	- Tagging Images
	- Image lifecycle
- It integrates with various AWS services like ECS
- It uses S3 in the backend
- Access controlled using IAM