Components of Kubernetes

| Component | Meaning                                                    | ECS equivalent |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Pods      | Each individual container running inside a machine         | Tasks          |
| Node      | A machine that runs the pods                               | EC2            |
| Cluster   | A cluster is a group of Nodes deployed together in a group | Cluster        |
| Service   | Multiple Clusters work together to enable a service        | Service        |
- Tasks of Kubernetes:
	- Run containers 
	- Scale them
	- Check if they are healthy
- AWS manages control plane (EKS)
- We manage:
	- Worker Nodes
	- Applications
- Supported volumes:
	- EBS
	- EFS (Fargate, as we learned multiple containers/tasks can use the same file system within the same AZ)
	- FSx Lustre
	- FSx NetApp ONTAP
- We specify StorageClass in manifest and connect using Container Storage Interface compliant driver.
- Use case: 
	- When company is already using Kuberenetes and wants to deploy to cloud
	- *When company wants a cloud agnostic solution (deploy to multiple clouds)*
	- Deploying to multiple regions - We can deploy multiple clusters to multple regions

#### Types of Nodes:
1. Managed Node Groups:
	1. It creates and manages the nodes for us
	2. Something like ASG
2. Fargate: 
	1. No maintennance/management is required.
3. Self managed nodes:
	1. Nodes created by us and registered to EKS
	2. Nodes are created and managed by us

#### Scaling:
1. Pod Level: Increase or decrease number of pods (ECS Tasks scaling)
2. Node Level: Add or remove EC2 Instances (ASG)
___

# App Runner
- It is a fully managed service, that allows us to host our applications easily.
- We provide our docker image/application code, and this service builds it and deploys it.
- We manage 0 infrastructure. No infra experience is required.
- Scaling, load balancers, encryption etc. are managed by AWS
- We can connect this app to other services like Database, SQS etc.
- We also have access to VPC
- Use case: rapid production deployments.