Keywords: Real Time streaming, Continous Ingestion, Clickstream/IOT data, many users reading the same stream, replay data
Do not tick for: decouple components, background processing, simple messaging

What is Kinesis?
- It is an amazon service, which allows us to collect, process, store and analyze streaming data.
- It can ingest real time data.
	- Clickstream data
	- IOT sensor data
	- Telemetry data
	- Application logs etc.
- Made up of mainly 4 services:
	1. Kinesis stream: It captures, processes and store data streams from the producers
	2. Kinesis video stream: It captures, processes, and stores video streams from the producers
	3. Kinesis firehose: It helps us load this streaming data in AWS storage services
	4. Kinesis Analytics: Use SQL/Apache Flink to analyze the data

Flow:
1. Producers produce the data. Each record contains data + partition key.
2. This record is sent to the Kinesis Data Stream. (1 record of max 1MB to per Shard per second)
3. Kinesis Data stream is made up of Shards.
4. This partition key is like groupId we learnt before. Data marked with same partition key, goes into same shard(like a group)
5. Within a same shard, the data is ordered. but not globally.
6. Now, shard is like a log file. Data keeps getting appended to the end of the shard.
7. The data stays inside the shard for 24 hours. Nothing is deleted if it is read/processed (like SQS/SNS)
8. Consumers (apps, lambda, firehose, analytics) pull data from this at 2MB/S
   Consumers pulling the data does not delete the data from shard
   Multiple consumers can read the data since it is not deleted

# Kinesis Data Stream
- Made up of shards
- Data inside Data Stream is not deleted (Immutable)
- Retention period 24 hrs -> 1 year
- *ABILITY TO REPLAY*
- Consumers:
	- SDKs, KCL(Kinesis Client Library)
	- AWS Lambda, Fire Hose, Kinesis Analytics
- 2 Modes
	- Provisioned Mode (predictable traffic), manual scale
	- On-demand Mode (unpredictable traffic), autoscale, no need to mange shard nos

___

# Security
Very similar to SNS,SQS
- Encryption
	- In flight: HTTPS
	- Rest: KMS
	- Additional client side encryption/decryption(tougher since it takes time)
- Access control
	- IAM
- No Kinesis DataStream level security (like bucket policy)
- CloudTrail for monitoring

___

# Firehose
- Pay based on data going through firehose
- Near real time
- Store data into:
	- Redshift, S3, opensearhc
	- 3rd praty: splunk, mongo, datadog
	- Custom: Any http endpoint
- No reply capability since it is a loading tool
- Supports conversion to various types
- Can also send failed data to S3 bucket


# Amazon MQ
- It is used to replace existing MQ servers which cannot re-code to use SQS, SNS.
- Only use case is upgrading from on-premise MQ
- Amazon MQ is not better than SQS SNS, it doesnt scale much
- Amazon MQ has both queue and notif service.